this video was made possible by
brilliant learn something new every day
at brilliant org slash H AI so you
clicked on this video because you want
to know what the shortest live country
in history is and you might be thinking
well come on video guy just tell us the
answer don't stress out to a whole video
like a jerk well first of all there's no
need for name-calling and second of all
while I'd love to just tell you the
answer the answer is complicated and
great for watch time that's because what
the shortest of country is depends on
what's considered a country for example
if I say right now and let me get the
clock ready I declare this recording
studio with cassettes people which is me
as the Friedan's - native - she's Dania
and nevermind were dissolved 4.2 seconds
did I just make the shortest live
country ever well probably not but to be
fair to half his interest in stay near
figuring out when something is a country
can be a bit difficult because it's
tough to know when something actually is
a country and when it's just a group of
people or in my case person saying
they're a country it's a debate we're
seeing right now about several states
such as Taiwan which actually now they
think about it and never mind I should
not have mentioned Taiwan forget about
the Taiwan thing that's like controversy
avoidance 101 look at this fun meme
instead so basically there are two
theories about what makes a country a
country one is called the constitutive
theory which says that being in country
is based off international recognition
basically a country is only in country
when other countries say it is but how
many other countries have to recognize a
country for it to be well a country the
answer is that nobody seems quite sure
and there are some very country seeming
countries such as South Korea that are
not recognized by all other countries if
we consider membership in the United
Nations as the mark of real
international recognition then the
shortest-lived country is the Sultanate
of Zanzibar winner of the first annual a
chai naima Wars which was located here
the Zanzibar archipelago had been a
protectorate of the British but on
December 10th 1963 was declared
independent and was recognized by the UN
on December 16th as its own independent
country for only about a month later the
two majors in xanzion tens of partisans
and mini the two major political parties
in Zanzibar came together to overthrow
the Sultan and on January 12th 1964 they
declared a new nation the People's
Republic of Zanzibar giving the country
a total of 33 days as a UN recognized
country also crazy coincidence the
Sultanate of Zanzibar was where the
shortest war in history a 39 minutes
couple was fought but that's a story for
another time but here's a problem with
his ends of our
answer membership in the UN feels like a
pretty high bar to be a country first of
all the UN didn't exist until 1945 so
any country that was around before then
couldn't have been in it at all and
second of all there are plenty of places
that are at least partially recognized
as countries but aren't in the UN like
the Vatican City Kosovo and Taiwan so
maybe it doesn't take the whole UN maybe
it just takes one other country if we
consider one country's formal
recognition to be enough then the
shortest of country is drumroll please
the Republic of Crimea which existed
from March 17th 2014 to March 18th of
2014 so about a day basically Crimea
held a referendum and declared its
independence on March 17th 2014 and
Russia immediately recognized it as a
sovereign nation but then the next day
Russia annexed Crimea and made it part
of the Russian Federation thus ending
the illustrious reign of the Republic of
Crimea about 24 hours after it began but
wait a minute because as this one is
controversial
first of all Russia was the only one to
recognize the Republic of Crimea the UN
even passed a resolution saying that the
referendum declaring independence was
illegal so maybe not comment engagement
is good so make sure to leave your
opinion on crimean independence in the
comments but like I said before the
constitutive theory is only one theory
of what makes a country a country the
second is called the declarative theory
it sets out four criteria for a country
a permanent population a defined
territory a government and the capacity
to enter relations with other states
according to those criteria allow me to
present the actual shortest lived
country in history the Russian
Democratic Federative Republic the
Russian Federative Democratic Republic
was formed around noon on January 19th
1918 when the democratically elected
Russian Constituent Assembly drafted and
adopted a resolution that declared the
Russian Republic was no more and that
they were now a cool new democratic
country they had a permanent population
the people in Russia a defined territory
you know Russia a government the Russian
Constituent Assembly and the capacity to
enter relations with other states I mean
they could have sent letters and stuff
but then around 6:00 p.m. that same day
Vladimir Lenin dissolved the assembly
informed and said the Russian Soviet
Federative Socialist Republic giving the
Russian Federative Democratic Republic a
total existence time of 6 hours
you couldn't even finish all three
Matrix movies in that time not that
you'd want to but before we declared the
winner
we have one last contender to look at
Catalonia on October 1st 2017 Catalonia
held a referendum and overwhelmingly
voted to become independent from Spain
on October 10th
the Catalan leader held a speech where
he declared independence saying I assume
the mandate of the people for Catalonia
to become an independent state in the
shape of a republic but right after that
he asked Parliament to suspend his
declaration of independence so that he
could negotiate with Spain given the
independent nation of Catalonia a life
span of exactly eight seconds this
independent nation had no international
recognition but you know he declared it
so make your own conclusion if you start
your own country you probably know that
any good nation eventually progresses
into space exploration to build a space
program there are a few fundamentals
you'll need to learn like the essentials
of science physics classical mechanics
astronomy gravitational physics and more
and all of those you can learn on
brilliance org the elite is the expert
in teaching complicated things through
active learning and problem solving you
can even learn something new every day
with their short daily problems which
each tie into one of their courses if
you want to learn more head to
brilliance org slash hii to sign up for
free and access some courses and then by
being one of the first 200 to use that
link you'll also get 20% off their
annual premium subscription and be
supporting the show while you're at it